.TH countkeys 8 2011-08-16
.SH NAME
countkeys \- a GNU/Linux keycounter that works!
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B countkeys
\fB-s\fR [\fB-o \fIlogfile\fR] [\fB-d \fIdevice\fR] [\fB-f\fR]

.br
.B countkeys
\fB-k\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
countkeys is a linux keycounter. It is no more advanced than other available
linux keycounters. All in all, it just seems to work. It relies on the event
interface of Linux input subsystem (normally devices \fI/dev/input/eventX\fR).
.PP
Once set, it counts all common character and function keys. It tries to
automatically determine the correct input device.
.PP
It is installed setuid root and may be invoked by any user anytime
.SH OPTIONS
Non-optional arguments are required for short options too.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB-\-start\fR
Starts the keylogging daemon process.
.TP
\fB-k\fR, \fB-\-kill\fR
Terminates the running countkeys process.
.TP
\fB-o\fR, \fB-\-output\fR=\fIlogfile\fR
Set ouput log file to \fIlogfile\fR. If no \fB-o\fR option is provided, countkeys
appends to \fI/var/log/countkeys.log\fR file. If \fIlogfile\fR doesn't exist, countkeys
creates the file with 600 permissions.
.IP
See also \fBLOGFILE FORMAT\fR section.
.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB-\-foreground\fR
Run in the foreground, log to stdout
.IP
This option exists for if you want to quickly count keystrokes of a given session
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB-\-device\fR=\fIdevice\fR
Use \fIdevice\fR as keyboard input event device instead of \fI/dev/input/eventX\fR default.
.IP
You can determine the keyboard device to be used by examining \fI/proc/bus/input/devices\fR.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fB/var/log/countkeys.log\fR
When \fB-o\fR option is not used, countkeys appends to default log file.
.SH "LOGFILE FORMAT"
Log files are \fBUTF-8 encoded\fR.
.PP
Each logging session is enclosed in "Logging started..." and "Logging stopped at 
<timestamp>" strings. Whenever Enter key (Return key) or Ctrl+C or Ctrl+D combination is pressed, 
a timestamp is appended on a new line.
.PP
Timestamp format is "%F\ %T%z", which results in "YYYY-mm-dd HH:MM:SS+ZZZZ".
Timestamp is separated from the logged keys by one '>' symbol.
.PP
All character key presses are counted, and the total is logged.
.PP
One example log file could look like:
.IP
Logging started ...
.IP
2009-12-11 09:58:17+0100 >
.br
Keys pressed: 2163
.IP
Logging stopped at 2009-12-11 09:58:54+0100
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
To print short help:
.IP
$ countkeys
.PP
To start logging to a custom log file with dynamically generated keymap:
.IP
$ countkeys --start --output /home/user/.secret/log
.PP
To end running countkeys process:
.IP
$ countkeys --kill
.SH BUGS
Be nice and hope nothing breaks.
.PP
If you come across any bugs, please report them on project website, issues page:
.IP
https://github.com/richoH/countkeys/issues
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
logkeys was written by Kernc <kerncece+countkeys@gmail.com>.
countkeys was forked from logkeys and hacked at by Rich Healey <richo@psych0tik.net>.
.PP
You can always obtain the latest version and information at project website:
<https://github.com/richoH/countkeys>.
